The basal member, 85-115 feet thick, is composed mainly of dark grey to black slateand argillite, which grade downward into a sequence predominately of alternating grey, green, red, white, or tan to brown zones, each 5-200 feet thick. The zones consist of alternating beds moslty less than two inches thick of limestone, dolomite, calcareous chert and argillite. A few beds of intra-formational conglomerate and chert breccia are also present. Carbonate-rich bed tend to be discontinuous and lenticular and they weather with a corrugated or knotty, lumpy-bedded appearance (Dimroth et al., 1970).  

The group is composed of eight component formations listed in ascending order: 1) Douglas Peninsula, 17-34 m (55-110 ft), marlstone, red-brown, laminated, gypsum casts; argillite, hematitic limestone and jasper nodules; 2) Taltheilei, 0-119 m (0-390 ft), dolomite, brown, medium-to thin-bedded, fine-grained, crystalline, stromatolitic laminated or massive; stromatolitic limestone with dolomite laminations; calcite cemented dolarenite, dolorudite; 3) Utsingi, 0-274 m, (0-900 ft), limestone, grey, medium- to thick-bedded, medium-grained, crystalline, mottled to laminated; minor stromatolitic limestone; 4) McLean, 0 - 120 m (0-395 ft), argillite, red-brown, very thin-bedded, calcareous, interbedded limestone of limestone nodules; some sections extensively dolomitized, 5) Blanchet, 0-303 m (0-995 ft), greywacke, dark red-brown to dark green, thin-bedded, graded bedding, interbedded argillite and interlaminated argillite and limestone, argillite with limestone nodules; 6) Pekanatui Point, 0-104 m (0-340 ft), limestone, white, very thin-bedded, aphanitic; very thinly interbedded limestone and argillite; argillite with limestone nodules; interbedded greywacke and argillites nodular argillaceous dolomite and limestone; "debris flow" breccia beds; some sections, extensively dolomitized; 7) Wildbread, 0-183 m (0-600? ft), limestone, grey to white, thin- to medium-bedded, oolitic, stromatolitic, laminated, mottled, or crystalline; minor dolomite, stromatolitic; some sections extensively dolomitized; and 8) Hearne, 0¿91 m (0-300 ft), limestone, grey to white, thick bedded medium- to coarse-grained, crystalline, massive to mottled; minor stromatolitic limestone and dolomite.

Recessive, dark grey argillaceous and silty limestones micritic to cryptocrystalline, and dark grey, calcareous and silty argillite. Silty and argillaceous dolomite is present in northeastern exposures. Some beds are well-laminated, others unlaminated with wavy surfaces. Some banded and streaked limestone and dolomite (ribbon-rock) present in northeastern exposures.  

Consists predominantly of red silty mudstone with pale yellow-green lenses parallel to bedding. Ripple marks and hopper-shaped crystal casts of halite are present. Three m (10 ft) thick beds of massive yellow-brown weathering dolomite occur interstratified with the mudstones. Two carbonates consisting of interlaminated yellow-brown weathering dolomite and blue weathering limestone with ripple laminations, low angle cross-bedding, edgewise conglomerate, convolute laminations, 'ball and pillow' structures, channels and biohermal stromatolites occur throughout the area. Locally the carbonates are green, mauve, purple or pink. Volcanic rocks occur locally.  

The Siyeh Formation may be divided into three informal members (Douglas, 1952). The lower member consists of green, grey and black argillites, green and grey argillaceous and arenaceous dolomites and dolomitic quartz sandstones (Price, 1964a). Mud cracks and ripple marks are locally abundant (Daly, 1912). The middle member consists mainly of thick-bedded, argillaceous grey limestone and dolomite, interbedded algal stromatolites, and thin interbeds and partings of grey and black argillite, with minor sandy dolomite, intraformational conglomerate and oolitic limestone. Molar-tooth structures are common in the massive carbonate beds. Thinly bedded argillaceous limestone and dolomite, with abundant sandy dolomite, dolomitic sandstone, intraformational conglomerate, and grey and black argillite occur in the condensed middle member section at North Kootenay Pass. A distinctive 15 to 25 m (49 to 82 ft) thick stromatolite zone occurs in the upper part of the member in the Clark and Galton ranges (Price, 1964a). The upper member consists mainly of green argillite, and dolomite with subordinate red argillite. Oscillation ripple marks and mud cracks are common (Price, 1964a).  

A shallow marine assemblage dominated by white to grey and light green, generally banded and locally stromatolitic calcite and dolomite marble with lesser black to brown pelite, massive spotted hornfels and white to grey fine-grained quartzite; minor marble-pebble conglomerate and mica schist.  

Two members: the lower an assemblage of thin, varicoloured shale, gypsum, anhydrite, sandstone, siltstone and dolomite beds; the upper member is lithologically similar to, but lacks the evaporitic beds of the lower member, and contains minor limestone and argillaceous limestone. A possible third unit, present west of the type area, consists of thick bedded sandstone and conglomeratic sandstone.  

The Cunningham Formation consists of plaformal, bedded to massive, recrystallized grey limestone, with abundant pisolites, oolites, pellets, algal coated grains and intraclasts. Dolostone with minor quartz is present near the top. Sandstone and mudstone are minor constituents. The Cunningham is typified by nonskeletal particles formed in a shallow marine, platformal environment.  

The Horsethief Creek is a heterogenous assemblage of coarse-grained, angular, feldspathic wackes ('grits') and immature quartzo-feldspathic conglomerates, plus intercalated argillite and carbonate. Young et al. (1973) proposed a four-fold subdivision of the Horsethief Creek Group in the Dogtooth Range near Golden, British Columbia. The lowest unit comprises feldspathic grits and pebble conglomerates, with interbedded grey and black argillite and rare carbonate. In contrast to underlying polymictic conglomerates of the Toby Formation these conglomerates are texturally mature, consisting of moderately well- to well-sorted, subangular to well-rounded pebbles of white quartzite, white to blue (rutilated) quartz and locally abundant creamy white feldspar. Dolomite and argillite cobbles are common at a few localities. The grit division is succeeded in most areas by a pelitic division comprising thin beds of siltstone and brown to grey argillite, often graded, together with rare beds of dolomitic sandstone. The carbonate division overlies the lower pelitic division and is highly variable in thickness and character. It usually includes oolitic and stromatolitic dolomites that commonly display evidence of early subaerial exposure and erosion, and rarely are included as blocks in carbonate debris flows. The upper clastic division caps the unit; it contains conglomerates, grits and argillites similar to those in the lower grit division. North of 51 deg N they grade up section into quartzites transitional into the Cambrian Hamill Group. This subdivision appears to be valid throughout the area of exposure.  

Fraser and Tremblay (1969) and Fraser (1974) subdivided the group into five formations. In ascending order these are: 1) Odjick Formation, 640-2,300 m (2,100-7,500 ft); predominantly thick-bedded quartzite and interlayered, argillite with a few beds of carbonate and quartz-pebble conglomerate and locally, andesitic flows; 2) Rocknest Formation, 700-1,700 m (2,300-5,500 ft), principally thick-bedded dolomite interbedded with argillite; 3) Recluse Formation, 600-1,900+ m (2,000-6,500+ ft); red and black shale and slate, concretionary argillite, thick-bedded greywacke, and siltstone; 4) Cowles Lake Formation, about 800 m (2670 ft); medium- to thick-bedded grey limestone and grey or red argillite, intercalated with finely interlaminated limestone and argillite; and 5) Takiyuak Formation, 400+ m (1,200+ ft); uniform, reddish feldspathic to lithic arenite and siltstone.
